azure: Add new config variables (#2226)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/command-reference/remote/modify.md

  $ dvc remote modify myremote url azure://mycontainer/path
  ```

> The options below contain sensitive user info. Therefore, it's safer to use
> the `--local` option so they're written to a Git-ignored
> [config-file](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/config).

- `connection_string` -
  [connection string](http://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/storage-configure-connection-string/):

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote connection_string \
                              'mystring'
  ```

- `account_name` - storage account name (requires either `account_key` or
  `sas_token` along with this):

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_name 'myuser'
  ```

* `account_key` - storage account key (for `account_name`):

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_key 'mykey'
  ```

* `sas_token` - shared access signature token (for `account_name`):

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote sas_token 'mytoken'
  ```

> * `tenant_id` - tenant ID for
>   [service principal](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal)
>   authentication:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `tenant_id` - tenant ID for
  [service principal](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal)
  authentication (requires `client_id` and `client_secret` along with this):
```

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote tenant_id 'directory-id'
  ```

> * `client_id` - client ID for _service principal_ authentication:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `client_id` - client ID for _service principal_ authentication (when `tenant_id` is set):
```

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote client_id 'client-id'
  ```

> * `client_secret` - client Secret for _service principal_ authentication:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `client_secret` - client Secret for _service principal_ authentication (when `tenant_id` is set):
```

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote client_secret 'client-secret'
  ```

> Azure remotes can also be configured entirely via environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure remotes can also be configured entirely via environment variables. For
account name and key/token auth:
```

```dvc
$ export AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME='myuser'
$ export AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_KEY='mykey'
$ dvc remote add -d myremote azure://mycontainer/path
```

> Env vars can also help setup service principal auth via certificate file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For _service principal_ auth (via certificate file):
```

  $ dvc remote modify myremote url azure://mycontainer/path
  ```

> > The options below contain sensitive user info. Therefore, it's safer to use
> > the `--local` option so they're written to a Git-ignored
> > [config-file](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/config).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The valued for the authentication options below will contain sensitive user
> info. Therefore, it's safer to use the `--local` flag so they're written to a
> Git-ignored [config file](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/config).
```

> > The valued for the authentication options below will contain sensitive user
> > info. Therefore, it's safer to use the `--local` flag so they're written to a
> > Git-ignored [config file](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/config).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The authentication values below will contain sensitive user info. Therefore,
> it's safer to use the `--local` flag so they're written to a Git-ignored
> [config file](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/config).
```

- `connection_string` -
  [connection string](http://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/storage-configure-connection-string/):

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote connection_string \
                              'mystring'
  ```

> - `account_name` - storage account name. Required along with either
>   `account_key` or `sas_token`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `account_name` - storage account name (requires either `account_key` or
  `sas_token` along with this):
```

> - `account_name` - storage account name (requires either `account_key` or
>   `sas_token` along with this):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `account_name` - storage account name. Works by itself (anonymous auth) or
  along with either `account_key` or `sas_token` along with this):
```

  ```dvc

>   $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_name 'account_name'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_name 'myuser'
```

  ```

> * `account_key` - storage account key:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `account_key` - storage account key (for `account_name`):
```

  ```dvc

>   $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_key 'account_key'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_key 'mykey'
```

  ```

> * `sas_token` - shared access signature token (can be used instead of
>   `account_key`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `sas_token` - shared access signature token (can be used for `account_name`
  instead of `account_key`):
```

> * `sas_token` - shared access signature token (can be used for `account_name`
>   instead of `account_key`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `sas_token` - shared access signature token (for `account_name`):
```

  ```dvc

>   $ dvc remote modify --local myremote sas_token 'sas_token'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote sas_token 'mytoken'
```

  ```

* `tenant_id` - tenant ID for
  [service principal](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal)
  authentication:

  ```dvc

>   $ dvc remote modify --local myremote tenant_id 'tenant_id'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote tenant_id 'directory-id'
```

  ```

* `client_id` - Client ID for _service principal_ authentication:

  ```dvc

>   $ dvc remote modify --local myremote client_id 'client_id'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote client_id 'client-id'
```

> * `client_id` - Client ID for _service principal_ authentication:
> 
>   ```dvc
>   $ dvc remote modify --local myremote client_id 'client_id'
>   ```
> 
> * `client_secret` - Client Secret for _service principal_ authentication:

Reviewer: ````suggestion
* `client_id` - client ID for _service principal_ authentication:

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote client_id 'client_id'
  ```

* `client_secret` - client Secret for _service principal_ authentication:
````

  ```dvc

>   $ dvc remote modify --local myremote client_secret 'client_secret'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote client_secret 'client-secret'
```

  ```

Azure remotes can also be configured entirely via environment variables:

```dvc

> $ export AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME='account_name'
> $ export AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_KEY='account_key'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ export AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME='myuser'
$ export AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_KEY='mykey'
```

$ dvc remote add -d myremote azure://mycontainer/path
```

> For using service principal with certificate:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Env vars can also help setup service principal auth via certificate file:
```

```dvc

> $ export AZURE_TENANT_ID='tenant_id'
> $ export AZURE_CLIENT_ID='client_id'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ export AZURE_TENANT_ID='directory-id'
$ export AZURE_CLIENT_ID='client-id'
```

$ export AZURE_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE_PATH='/path/to/certificate'
```

For logging in with username/password;

```

> $ export AZURE_CLIENT_ID='client_id'
> $ export AZURE_USERNAME='username'
> $ export AZURE_PASSWOR='password'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ export AZURE_CLIENT_ID='client-id'
$ export AZURE_USERNAME='myuser'
$ export AZURE_PASSWOR='mysecret'
```

> For logging in with username/password;
> 
> ```
> $ export AZURE_CLIENT_ID='client-id'
> $ export AZURE_USERNAME='myuser'
> $ export AZURE_PASSWOR='mysecret'

Reviewer: ````suggestion
For simple username/password login:

```
$ export AZURE_CLIENT_ID='client-id'
$ export AZURE_USERNAME='myuser'
$ export AZURE_PASSWORD='mysecret'
````

```

> On Windows, if none of the above settings are configured the login will
> fallback to search for a signed in Microsoft application (e.g Visual Studio)
> and use that identity. If multiple found, it will use `AZURE_USERNAME` to
> select the primary one.

> On all other systems, it will use the Microsoft account of user who is signed

> > in to Visual Studio Code, if it is available.

Reviewer: Should we put some of this default authentication info into `remote add` as well? And near the top here?

A single note (md block quote) for both paragraphs above should be OK 👍

Reviewer: Or the list of order in which creds are looked for as you guys discussed in https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/2226#pullrequestreview-595535655.

Author: I couldn't figure out the proper place to put this, though this is what I got as a list;

```
Authentication Flow:
- If `connection_string` specified, it will auth with it
- If `tennant_id`/`client_id`/`client_secret` is specified, it will auth with AD service principal
- If `account_name`/`account_key` is specified, it will auth with account_key
- If `account_name`/`sas_token` is specified, it will auth with SAS token
- If `account_name` is specified, it will auth anonymously
- If nothing is specified in the config, it will try to follow the steps here and try to infer it from the environment (
https://azuresdkdocs.blob.core.windows.net/$web/python/azure-identity/1.4.0/azure.identity.html#azure.identity.DefaultAzureCredential)
```

Reviewer: Great, thanks.

- Where in that order do env vars go? (Please mention it in the list.)
- Let's put that list before the note about "The authentication values below will contain sensitive..." please, and I'll copy-edit it.
- Please move the `tennant_id`/`client_id`/`client_secret` config options before `account_name` to match this list.

Reviewer: And for the `remote add` ref lets please change:

```diff
- See `dvc remote modify` for a full list of Azure storage parameters.
+ See `dvc remote modify` for a full list of Azure storage authentication methods.
```

since all the Azure remote params are for auth.

Author: > Where in that order do env vars go? (Please mention it in the list.)

It is the same order.

Reviewer: @isidentical I meant are env vars read first or do the config values get the priority?

Author: > I meant are env vars read first or do the config values get the priority?

Config values get the priority.

  $ dvc remote modify myremote url azure://mycontainer/path
  ```

> The options below contain sensitive user info. Therefore, it's safer to use
> the `--local` option so they're written to a Git-ignored
> [config-file](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/config).

- `connection_string` -
  [connection string](http://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/storage-configure-connection-string/):

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote connection_string \
                              'mystring'
  ```

- `account_name` - storage account name. Required along with either

>   `account_key` or `sas_token`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `account_key` or `sas_token`:
```

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_name 'account_name'
  ```

* `account_key` - storage account key:

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_key 'account_key'
  ```

> * `sas_token` - shared access signature token, can be used instead of
>   `account_key`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `sas_token` - shared access signature token (can be used instead of
  `account_key`):
```

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote sas_token 'sas_token'
  ```

* `tenant_id` - tenant ID for

>   [Principal Service Authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [service principal](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal)
  authentication:
```

  ```

> The options below contain sensitive user info. Therefore, it's safer to use
> the `--local` option so they're written to a Git-ignored
> [config-file](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/config).

- `connection_string` -
  [connection string](http://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/storage-configure-connection-string/):

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote connection_string \
                              'mystring'
  ```

- `account_name` - storage account name. Required along with either
  `account_key` or `sas_token`:

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_name 'account_name'
  ```

* `account_key` - storage account key:

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_key 'account_key'
  ```

* `sas_token` - shared access signature token (can be used instead of
  `account_key`):

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote sas_token 'sas_token'
  ```

* `tenant_id` - tenant ID for
  [service principal](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal)
  authentication:

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote tenant_id 'tenant_id'
  ```

> * `client_id` - Client ID for
>   [Principal Service Authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `client_id` - Client ID for _service principal_ authentication:
```

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote client_id 'client_id'
  ```

> * `client_secret` - Client Secret for
>   [Principal Service Authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `client_secret` - Client Secret for _service principal_ authentication:
```

  $ dvc remote modify myremote url azure://mycontainer/path
  ```

> > The options below contain sensitive user info. Therefore, it's safer to add it
> > with the `--local` option, so it's written to a Git-ignored config file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The options below contain sensitive user info. Therefore, it's safer to use
> the `--local` option, so they're written to a Git-ignored
> [config-file](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/config).
```

- `connection_string` -
  [connection string](http://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/storage-configure-connection-string/):

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote connection_string \
                              'mystring'
  ```

> * `account_name` - storage account name, will be required if authenticated
>   either with `account_key` or `sas_token`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `account_name` - storage account name. Required along with either
  `account_key` or `sas_token`
```

  $ dvc remote modify myremote url azure://mycontainer/path
  ```

> The options below contain sensitive user info. Therefore, it's safer to use
> the `--local` option so they're written to a Git-ignored
> [config-file](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/config).

- `connection_string` -
  [connection string](http://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/storage-configure-connection-string/):

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote connection_string \
                              'mystring'
  ```

- `account_name` - storage account name. Required along with either
  `account_key` or `sas_token`

  ```dvc

>   $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_name \
>                               'account_name'

Reviewer: One line is OK under 72 chars for code blocks:
```suggestion
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_name 'account_name'
```

>   $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_name \
>                               'account_name'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_name 'account_name'
```

  ```

* `account_key` - storage account key:

  ```dvc

>   $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_key \
>                               'account_key'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_key 'account_key'
```

  ```

* `sas_token` - shared access signature token, can be used instead of
  `account_key`:

  ```dvc

>   $ dvc remote modify --local myremote sas_token \
>                               'sas_token'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote sas_token 'sas_token'
```

  ```

* `tenant_id` - tenant ID for
  [Principal Service Authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal)

  ```dvc

>   $ dvc remote modify --local myremote tenant_id \
>                               'tenant_id'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote tenant_id 'tenant_id'
```

  ```

* `client_id` - Client ID for
  [Principal Service Authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal)

  ```dvc

>   $ dvc remote modify --local myremote client_id \
>                               'client_id'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote client_id 'client_id'
```

  ```

* `client_secret` - Client Secret for
  [Principal Service Authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal)

  ```dvc

>   $ dvc remote modify --local myremote client_secret \
>                               'client_secret'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote client_secret 'client_secret'
```

  $ dvc remote modify myremote url azure://mycontainer/path
  ```

- `connection_string` -
  [connection string](http://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/storage-configure-connection-string/):

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote connection_string \
                              'mystring'
  ```

>   > The connection string contains sensitive user info. Therefore, it's safer to

Reviewer 2: should it be generalized somehow?

  > add it with the `--local` option, so it's written to a Git-ignored config
  > file.

  For more information on configuring Azure Storage connection strings, visit
  [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-configure-connection-string).

* `account_name` - storage account name, will be required if authenticated
  either with `account_key` or `sas_token`.

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_name \
                              'account_name'
  ```

* `account_key` - storage account key:

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote account_key \
                              'account_key'
  ```

* `sas_token` - shared access signature token, can be used instead of
  `account_key`:

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote sas_token \
                              'sas_token'
  ```

> * `tenant_id` - Tenant ID for

Reviewer 2: unless is is a proper name, all options start with a small letter - Tenant -> tenant

  ```

* `client_id` - Client ID for
  [Principal Service Authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal)

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote client_id \
                              'client_id'
  ```

* `client_secret` - Client Secret for
  [Principal Service Authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal)

  ```dvc
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote client_secret \
                              'client_secret'
  ```

Azure remotes can also be configured entirely via environment variables:

```dvc
$ export AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME='account_name'
$ export AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_KEY='account_key'
$ dvc remote add -d myremote azure://mycontainer/path
```

For using service principal with certificate:

```dvc
$ export AZURE_TENANT_ID='tenant_id'
$ export AZURE_CLIENT_ID='client_id'
$ export AZURE_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE_PATH='/path/to/certificate'
```

For logging in with username/password;

```
$ export AZURE_CLIENT_ID='client_id'
$ export AZURE_USERNAME='username'
$ export AZURE_PASSWOR='password'
```

> > On windows, if none of the above settings are configured the login will

Reviewer 2: Windows

> > fallback to search for a signed in Microsoft application (e.g Visual Studio)

Reviewer 2: I thinks we should expand and move this description to the top - describe the flow first on different systems, etc

Reviewer 2: for example, have we made changes to support CLI login (default credentials)?

Author: > have we made changes to support CLI login

What do you mean by that?

Author: Yeah I think we can add some sort of list to show the order

```
The order the authentication options will be tried;
- connection_string
- principals
- account name / account key
- ...
```

Reviewer 2: I meant the DefaultCredentials flow that I shared the link to. `https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/09521dfb517e0859ec961cae006fb728d787b565/sdk/identity/azure-identity/azure/identity/_credentials/azure_cli.py#L33` - is part of it (I'm not sure btw, if it is covered by us parsing the config file as we do)

Author: no, default credentials flow happens only if you don't set anything in your config.

Reviewer: @isidentical What happens first, default credentials or Microsoft account login?

Author: > What happens first, default credentials or Microsoft account login?

What do you mean by Microsoft account login? Default credentials flow happens always the last thing if you don't present anything in your config (even the account_name).

Reviewer: I was referring to "If no params are given, DVC will try to use a [default credential](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/python/api/azure-identity/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential) (inferred from environment variables)."

Reading that article, I'm guessing they're the same thing?

Reviewer: > inferred from environment variables

This is quite confusing combined with that link. The article lists 5 possible id sources, of which only the first one involves env vars. What do we mean exactly? Thanks

  $ dvc remote modify myremote url azure://mycontainer/path
  ```

#### Authentication Flow:

- If `connection_string` specified, it will auth with it
- If `tenant_id`/`client_id`/`client_secret` is specified, it will auth with AD
  service principal
- If `account_name`/`account_key` is specified, it will auth with account_key
- If `account_name`/`sas_token` is specified, it will auth with SAS token

> - If `account_name` is specified, it will auth anonymously

Reviewer: @isidentical How can it be "anonymous" if an account **name** is used? (Last bullet) Thanks

Reviewer: Are we talking about this (https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/anonymous-read-access-configure?tabs=portal) and if so does it depend on the storage config?

Author: > @isidentical How can it be "anonymous" if an account name is used? (Last bullet) Thanks

It is the location to your storage service. So if you specify your account name only (e.g `test_iterative`) and then add `azure://temp-bucket/data` as a remote then it will access `test_iterative.azuresomething.com/test-bucket/data` under the hood anonymously (unless you give any of the authentication options with it).

Reviewer: I see, thanks.

So yes to the link and Q I mentioned? I.e. it depends on the storage access being setup public.

Reviewer: > It is the location to your storage service

Also, a bit confusing to call it "account name" if it's a path or location. What is the same concept called in Azure, is it "storage account"? If so maybe this param should be `storage_account`.
